README.md, before:

# Usage

This is a Vue web app which has an image repository which you can hopefully search

# Architecture diagram

# Features

**SEARCH function**

- [x] from characteristics of images
  > I have the user choose to describe their image when they add it or if they choose not to my route that handles adding images has an image classifier called ImageAI that uses a DenseNet model by Facebook AI research. This also gets stored in my Elasticsearch database so when users use my search bar, the query is searched upon in my Elasticsearch database.
- [x] from text
  > I have a search bar on my client that accepts queries, once the search button is clicked on the client sends the query as a request to my Flask backend and in there I have an Elasticsearch database. The full-text search engine then returns the top 5 images that match the description
- [] from an image (search for similar images)
  >

**ADD function**

- [] one / bulk / enormous amount of images
  >
- [] private or public (permissions)
  >
- [] secure uploading and stored images
  >

**DELETE function**

- [] one / bulk / selected / all images
  >
- [] Prevent a user deleting images from another user (access control)
  >
- [] secure deletion of images
  >

**SELL/BUY function**

- [] ability to manage inventory
  >
- [] set price
  >
- [] discounts
  >
- [] handle money

# Things I learned

- Never built a RESTFUL API before so this is my first time, this helped me a [lot](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/how-to-build-a-restful-api-using-node-js-express-mongodb-1882a966726c)
- Since this isn't Ruby on Rails, you have to configure a lot of things like establishing the connection to MongoDB, and then setting up the middleware so that Express doesn't stop working, then setting up the model which specifies the structure of how data will be indexed, and then the controller which deals with how requests are being handled
- AWS is a pain in the butt, my advice is to just skim over anything thats recommended, and if you have found out what your are looking for then focus on that. Otherwise you are going to tire yourself out. Thank the lord for this [guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/s3-example-photo-album.html)
- I just found out how to `this` in a callback. All you have to do is create a new variable for example `let self = this` and then use `self` from now on. Here's a [link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45743395/uncaught-in-promise-typeerror-cannot-set-property-of-undefined-with-axios) to my problem and here's an explanation of what's going [on](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20279484/how-to-access-the-correct-this-inside-a-callback/20279485#20279485).
- For the love of god if you do any asychronous work like fetching from a resource do it don't try to wriggle out of it with synchronous code.
- (January 20, 2021) I just configured the backend with Flask which serves the data from the image classifier and have the Axios client request it, this is so damn cool.
- To add two git repositories together `git subtree add --prefix=[name of new folder] [child git rep url] [branch of git repo you want to be the parent]`, here's a [post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1425892/how-do-you-merge-two-git-repositories) about it
- CORS should always be configured when making cross domain requests, here's a great website of how to set up CORS in different [frameworks](https://enable-cors.org/index.html)
- Choose a folder name and stick with it lol but idea to change it later on, (especially if it's really bulky :( )
- THE CLIENT'S REQUEST SHOULD MATCH EXACTLY TO THE SERVER'S ROUTE, a backslash wasted so many hours of my life
- I've decided to enable bucket versionning since there's a higher chance that a user might be frustrated with finding out there image has been wiped out by someone else's image due to AWS S3 overwriting when two image names have the same name.
- Passwords should never be stored in a database, do some hashing to it and then discard it immediately after
- If you're using environment variables you gotta export in the session of the shell you are working on in the terminal, having a .env sometimes doesn't do everthing
- Enabling CORS solves CORS issues with the server but not the client, when you send a request back, you must have `Access-Control-Allow-Origin:*` in your response header. Otherwise you're going to have server saying 200 but client throwing a bad error.
- Why hash passwords instead of encrypt? what happens when two hashes are the same
- To prevent the data from being sent in real text, secure requests using HTTP basic authentication so your hash isn't in vain
- To change the state of the parent component, pass an event down the child and on the event the child will `$emit(event)`, used this to logout from my component

# To do

- adding in private, hash bucket names, prevent duplicate bucket names in user
- searching in private, each time we add a photo to private we append it to the private images array in MongoDB, when user logs in they will have all their images in a redis cache
- encryption
- bulk image add
- searching images with images
- Jest
- Dockerize
- Look at twelve factor app

- ADD

  - How to add bulk images?

  - encryption

- SEARCH

  - TinyEngine [MatchEngine API](https://services.tineye.com/developers/matchengine/api_reference/search) for searching images with images?

- DELETE

  - maybe to show all the possible images that they could delete, have something running in the background that picks up all the images from there albums and displays them?

- SELL/BUY
  - Stripe API?

# Technologies used

### Backend

- Flask as server
- Passlib to hash passwords
- MongoDB as database
- ImageAI to classify images
- Elasticsearch as full-text search engine

### Frontend

- Vue.js for frontend framework
- Axios for making calls to server
- Bulma as CSS framework
- AWS-SDK to connect to AWS-S3 for using their buckets to store images for public and private repositories

# Considerations

- Verify that user is not bot and send verification email?

# Some things I look to do in the future/ improvements that could be made

- I didn't quite understand how to modularize my routes with Flask which I should do in the future because having a lot of code in one file makes it hard to debug. The thing that prevented me was that Flask's factory application was confusing
- How do I make methods in one child component be available in another child component with the same parent? This would allow code to be reused and not violate the DRY principle
- Perform some validation when users enter a name for their private albums since the name of their private album is the bucket name

# Twelve factor app

| Factor              | Description                                                      | Did we do it | How did we do it/not do it? |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ | --------------------------- |
| Codebase            | One codebase tracked in revision control, deploys                |              |                             |
| Dependencies        | Explicity declare and isolate dependencies                       |              |                             |
| Config              | Store config in the environment                                  |              |                             |
| Backing services    | Treat backing services as attached services                      |              |                             |
| Build, release, run | Strictly separate build and run stages                           |              |                             |
| Processes           | Execute the app as one or mroe stateless processes               |              |                             |
| Port binding        | Export services via port binding                                 |              |                             |
| Concurrency         | Scale out via the process model                                  |              |                             |
| Disposability       | Maximize robustness with fast startup and graceful shutdown      |              |                             |
| Dev/prod parity     | Keep development, staging, and production as similar as possible |              |                             |
| Logs                | Treat logs as event streams                                      |              |
| Admin processes     | Run admin/management tasks as one-off processes                  |              |                             |

Commit message:

prevent duplicate buckets with user and clicking on a bucket available

README.md, after:

# Usage

This is a Vue web app which has an image repository which you can hopefully search

# Architecture diagram

# Features

**SEARCH function**

- [x] from characteristics of images
  > I have the user choose to describe their image when they add it or if they choose not to my route that handles adding images has an image classifier called ImageAI that uses a DenseNet model by Facebook AI research. This also gets stored in my Elasticsearch database so when users use my search bar, the query is searched upon in my Elasticsearch database.
- [x] from text
  > I have a search bar on my client that accepts queries, once the search button is clicked on the client sends the query as a request to my Flask backend and in there I have an Elasticsearch database. The full-text search engine then returns the top 5 images that match the description
- [] from an image (search for similar images)
  >

**ADD function**

- [] one / bulk / enormous amount of images
  >
- [] private or public (permissions)
  >
- [] secure uploading and stored images
  >

**DELETE function**

- [] one / bulk / selected / all images
  >
- [] Prevent a user deleting images from another user (access control)
  >
- [] secure deletion of images
  >

**SELL/BUY function**

- [] ability to manage inventory
  >
- [] set price
  >
- [] discounts
  >
- [] handle money

# Things I learned

- Never built a RESTFUL API before so this is my first time, this helped me a [lot](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/how-to-build-a-restful-api-using-node-js-express-mongodb-1882a966726c)
- Since this isn't Ruby on Rails, you have to configure a lot of things like establishing the connection to MongoDB, and then setting up the middleware so that Express doesn't stop working, then setting up the model which specifies the structure of how data will be indexed, and then the controller which deals with how requests are being handled
- AWS is a pain in the butt, my advice is to just skim over anything thats recommended, and if you have found out what your are looking for then focus on that. Otherwise you are going to tire yourself out. Thank the lord for this [guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/s3-example-photo-album.html)
- I just found out how to `this` in a callback. All you have to do is create a new variable for example `let self = this` and then use `self` from now on. Here's a [link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45743395/uncaught-in-promise-typeerror-cannot-set-property-of-undefined-with-axios) to my problem and here's an explanation of what's going [on](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20279484/how-to-access-the-correct-this-inside-a-callback/20279485#20279485).
- For the love of god if you do any asychronous work like fetching from a resource do it don't try to wriggle out of it with synchronous code.
- (January 20, 2021) I just configured the backend with Flask which serves the data from the image classifier and have the Axios client request it, this is so damn cool.
- To add two git repositories together `git subtree add --prefix=[name of new folder] [child git rep url] [branch of git repo you want to be the parent]`, here's a [post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1425892/how-do-you-merge-two-git-repositories) about it
- CORS should always be configured when making cross domain requests, here's a great website of how to set up CORS in different [frameworks](https://enable-cors.org/index.html)
- Choose a folder name and stick with it lol but idea to change it later on, (especially if it's really bulky :( )
- THE CLIENT'S REQUEST SHOULD MATCH EXACTLY TO THE SERVER'S ROUTE, a backslash wasted so many hours of my life
- I've decided to enable bucket versionning since there's a higher chance that a user might be frustrated with finding out there image has been wiped out by someone else's image due to AWS S3 overwriting when two image names have the same name.
- Passwords should never be stored in a database, do some hashing to it and then discard it immediately after
- If you're using environment variables you gotta export in the session of the shell you are working on in the terminal, having a .env sometimes doesn't do everthing
- Enabling CORS solves CORS issues with the server but not the client, when you send a request back, you must have `Access-Control-Allow-Origin:*` in your response header. Otherwise you're going to have server saying 200 but client throwing a bad error.
- Why hash passwords instead of encrypt? what happens when two hashes are the same
- To prevent the data from being sent in real text, secure requests using HTTP basic authentication so your hash isn't in vain
- To change the state of the parent component, pass an event down the child and on the event the child will `$emit(event)`, used this to logout from my component

# To do

- adding in private, when a user is first created, their bucket is created and each time they add a new private repo a new bucket is created
- searching in private, each time we add a photo to private we append it to the private images array in MongoDB, when user logs in they will have all their images in a redis cache might also want to use a redis cache for getting the list of buckets since a request is being sent each time we click on the dropdown
- encryption
- bulk image add
- searching images with images
- Jest
- Dockerize
- Look at twelve factor app, figure out production

- ADD

  - How to add bulk images?

  - encryption

- SEARCH

  - TinyEngine [MatchEngine API](https://services.tineye.com/developers/matchengine/api_reference/search) for searching images with images?

- DELETE

  - maybe to show all the possible images that they could delete, have something running in the background that picks up all the images from there albums and displays them?

- SELL/BUY
  - Stripe API?

# Technologies used

### Backend

- Flask as server
- Passlib to hash passwords
- MongoDB as database
- ImageAI to classify images
- Elasticsearch as full-text search engine

### Frontend

- Vue.js for frontend framework
- Axios for making calls to server
- Bulma as CSS framework
- AWS-SDK to connect to AWS-S3 for using their buckets to store images for public and private repositories

# Considerations

- Verify that user is not bot and send verification email?
- Hash bucket names; hash bucket names, everytime you successfully add a new bucket to user create the actual bucket which is hashed in awss3, keep the hash and the actual name in the array,

# Some things I look to do in the future/ improvements that could be made

- I didn't quite understand how to modularize my routes with Flask which I should do in the future because having a lot of code in one file makes it hard to debug. The thing that prevented me was that Flask's factory application was confusing
- How do I make methods in one child component be available in another child component with the same parent? This would allow code to be reused and not violate the DRY principle
- Perform some validation when users enter a name for their private albums since the name of their private album is the bucket name

# Twelve factor app

| Factor              | Description                                                      | Did we do it | How did we do it/not do it? |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ | --------------------------- |
| Codebase            | One codebase tracked in revision control, deploys                |              |                             |
| Dependencies        | Explicity declare and isolate dependencies                       |              |                             |
| Config              | Store config in the environment                                  |              |                             |
| Backing services    | Treat backing services as attached services                      |              |                             |
| Build, release, run | Strictly separate build and run stages                           |              |                             |
| Processes           | Execute the app as one or mroe stateless processes               |              |                             |
| Port binding        | Export services via port binding                                 |              |                             |
| Concurrency         | Scale out via the process model                                  |              |                             |
| Disposability       | Maximize robustness with fast startup and graceful shutdown      |              |                             |
| Dev/prod parity     | Keep development, staging, and production as similar as possible |              |                             |
| Logs                | Treat logs as event streams                                      |              |
| Admin processes     | Run admin/management tasks as one-off processes                  |              |                             |
